(upbeat music)
- [Instructor] In order to complete the solution,
we'll need to set up our local development environment,
build toolsm and continuous integration server for Java 14.
The first step in doing that is installing Java 14
on our workstation.
So here on the adoptopenjdk.net website,
I'm going to go ahead and select the open JDK 14
binary distribution, and then I'll click on
the latest release button to download it.
Now, I've already pulled this software down to my system,
so I'm going to just navigate to my desktop,
where you will find the installer for the binaries.
I'll double click on the installer,
and we can click on the next button to get started.
It will ask me to accept some general license terms,
which I will do, and then continue.
And then, on this pane of the dialogue,
it's going to allow us to specify some configurations.
I'm going to leave the Set JAVA_HOME variable unchecked,
and I'm also going to uncheck the add to PATH option.
This will prevent Java 14 from becoming the default version
of Java on my system.
Okay, with those options selected,
I'm going to click on next, and then install.
Okay, so Java 14's installed on my system.
Now let's head over to Eclipse, where we can add Java 14
as one of the available JREs within the IDE.
To do that, we'll click on window and then go to
preferences, and here you can see, inside of
the preferences pane, we can look at the installed JREs
that are available for the IDE.
Currently, we have Java 11 and Java 8,
and we're going to click on add to include Java 14.
So just allow standard VM to remain selected, then hit next,
and on this dialogue, we're going to click on directory,
and here we'll navigate to the directory
containing the JDK we just installed.
So I know that my JDKs get installed within C,
program files, AdoptOpenJDK,
and then I just need to select the JDK14 option.
Once I've selected that, I'll click on select folder
and then hit finish, and then apply and close.
Now, within Eclipse, we can use JDK14
to compile and run our applications.
The next thing we'll do is configure our Maven pom file
to include a profile for Java 14.
So we've done this for the other two Java versions.
I'm just going to copy the profile of Java 11,
and then from there, I'll paste it into the pom file
and then modify it for Java 14.
Okay, we'll go ahead and save the pom file.
And now I'm going to navigate to the run configurations
for the project.
And you'll notice that we have existing run configurations
for Java 11 and Java 8.
I'm just going to click on the Maven build option
and then right click and click new configuration here.
I'll then, within the base directory,
select our project location.
And from there, we can specify the goals that we would like
to include, and those will be clean and package.
And then you'll remember that we want to use
the Java 14 profile.
Okay, and the final thing we'll need to do is set our
Maven build to use an alternative JRE,
and in this case, we want it to be Java 14.
So with that in place, go ahead and apply the changes
to the run configuration, and then click on the run button.
That's going to kick off a build with Java 14,
and you'll notice that we do have some issues compiling
our application in Java 14.
This is to be expected.
It didn't compile on Java 11,
Java 14 is not going to fix that.
Okay, so the next thing that we'll do is set up a build
on our continuous integration server.
So I'll navigate back to the browser.
And I have my Jenkins server running on port 8000,
so I'll just need to log in.
And within Jenkins, we'll navigate to the manage Jenkins
link, and here's where we can set up our JDK
by going into the global tool configuration.
Within the global tool configuration,
we'll click on JDK installations,
and we need to add another JDK.
In order to add the JDK,
I'm going to uncheck install automatically,
ad then we can provide a name of AdoptOpenJDK14,
and now we'll need to navigate back to the directory
where we have JDK14 installed.
And then I'm just going to copy that directory
and paste it in the Java home text box.
Okay, so once we click on save,
that's going to include Java 14 in our Jenkins server.
And now we're just going to duplicate one of our projects
in order to configure it to build with JDK14.
To do that, we'll click on new item.
Here, we're going to specify the name of this item
as H Plus Sports API - JDK14, and then we're going to
navigate down to this lower section to copy
one of our previous builds.
We'll select the H Plus Sports API - JDK11,
build, and hit OK.
And that's going to open the configuration for the new item.
And this time we want to select AdoptOpenJDK14
as the JDK we'll use to build the project,
and then we need to, once again,
switch the Maven profile we'll use.
So here you can see, we're going to use our Java 14 profile
that we recently added.
So I'm going to go ahead and save that.
Okay, and you'll remember that our build
was integrated with GitHub, so we'll need to push
those changes up to GitHub.
So here we can see changes to our pom file.
I'm going to commit those.
And then push them to GitHub.
And now, if we navigate over to our Jenkins server,
you can see that the changes were already picked up
and we're starting to trigger our jobs.
So here we can see the JDK14 job did trigger.
Now, I would expect this to have some issues,
because we have known migration issues in our system,
and we do see those in our console output,
but now we have a canary build of sorts set up
so that the latest Java version will be used
to build our application.
Now, we don't expect this to run smoothly every time.
In fact, we're hoping for this build to alert us
to problems with the latest Java version
and our application source code.
All right, so I hope you enjoyed this solution
and learned a lot about working with new Java versions
and various tools in your development environments.